---
name: "EEEBot: Y1 CW"
thumbnail: "/project/eeebot.JPEG"
summary: The EEEBot is the construction project I worked on during the first year my Electronic and Computer Engineering degree. The EEEBot is a robot that initially started as a simple robot controlled by an ESP32 and throughout the course of the year has been improved upon, giving it the capabilities to perform maze navigation, line following and symbol recognition on top of remote control via online dashboard
pictures:
---
# The Introduction
The EEEBot is a coursework project for the first year of my Electronic and Computer Engineering degree. The EEEBot is a robotic car that is controlled by an ESP32. The project spanend the course of the academic year and was work on in 5 separate lab weeks. From start to finish, it began as a simple car that can be controlled by a pre loaded program and given more capabilities through various sensors along the way. Prior to this project I have had very limited experiece with electronic components and while I understood the theory, I was lacking in practical experience. The project helped me develop my skills and will hopefully help me with various projects in the future.

# Blind Maze Navigation
The first sensors added to the EEEBot after it's contruction was a sonar and an MPU. The sonar used was an HC-SR04 sonar sensor that was used to give it the ability to measure it's distance to a nearby object in front using sonar technology. The MPU used gave the EEEBot the ability to read angular velocity as well as acceleration. This gave it the ability to keep track of it's orientation. Using these two sensors, the goal for the week was to navigate a maze without crashing by hugging the left wall. This is a common method to solve a simple maze given that it does not need to be optimized. This was accomplished smoothly.

# Line Following
Next, the EEEBot was equiped with an array of 5 photodiodes. These photo diodes would capture a reflected infrared ray from the ground and use this as input to perform line following. The outputs from the photodiodes would go through a transimpedance amplifier to make the readings more clear then go through an ADC. The inputs from each sensor is weighted and then average to get a value to represent the diviation from the line. This value is then used to produce a weight value of how far the servo on the EEEBot should turn to correct it's path and perform said function. Out of all the weeks, this was the most successful, being able to perfectly follow the line and demonstrated it's workings.

# Remote Control
In the next project week, a raspberry pi was integrated into the system of the EEEBot. This allowed for wireless communication and so wireless controll from a dashboard that can be accessed through a browser. This was straight forward, using the MQTT service which is designed for high latency wireless communications.

# Symbol Recognition
In the final lab week, using a camera connected to the raspberry pi, the EEEBot was given the ability to perform symbol recognition. The camera feed would be used as input and the program would give an output that can be used to controll the EEEBot to move accordingly. Each frame of the input would first be filtered to leave only the relavent information, filtering out noise. The result would be used to create contours and get a set of coordinates to what should be the four corners of the symbol in frame. The original image is then warped to these coordinates and compared to a template of the symbols to produce a percentage match. This value determines which symbol is being seen or if a symbol is even in frame. This went well when in a controlled environment with proper lighting but failed to perform in a range of settings.

# Conclusion
The EEEBot project for my coursework has taught me many things over the course of the year. This I consider to be my first proper intruction to electronics where I was able to learn step by step. While the EEEBot is relatively rudimentary in my opinion, using outdated software at times, it did serve it's purpose as an intro to the course. Using these skills, I plan to improve my previous projects over the course of the summer as well as embark on to new endevours. The EEEBot worked for most part as intended and was able to do the simple things it was required to albeit in a proof of concept kind of way and nowhere near industry level, the skills I learned will help me in the future. The project required me to write 3 technical reports which can be seen below.